[MUSIC]
The point of this lecture is
really to just introduce the term
Internet of Things.
Just to define the term,
give you some kind of a general idea
of what Internet of Things really is,
what it's about.
So we'll go through an example,
a refrigerator example.
And talk about how a refrigerator can be
integrated into the Internet of Things,
and how it’s different
than just a regular,
traditional refrigerator that
you are probably used to.
So let’s break down the term
Internet of Things.
We're probably gonna start off
with a thing of some kind.
So in this case we're talking
about a refrigerator and
a refrigerator is just a thing, so
it can be anything besides a computer.
Right?
If it's a computer,
we're not calling that a thing,
but anything besides a computer.
Besides a traditional computer,
a laptop, desktop,
server type of device,
you'll call that a thing of some kind.
And it has some features.
It has some use.
So in the case of a refrigerator like
this, we know what a refrigerator does.
It keeps things cold and so on.
So you start off with a thing.
Now the next thing you
do is you add to that
some type of computational intelligence.
Usually that involves a processor
like what we're showing here.
That's actually a picture
of an R-Dweeno but
it could be any type of
computational intelligence.
Typically it's a micro controller of
some kind, running some kind of code.
So, you see these devices
all around your house.
But it's the computer inside, right?
So it doesn't look like a computer,
it looks like a thing of some kind.
It looks like a refrigerator, but
it actually has computational intelligence
inside, so it's really
a computer hidden on the inside.
And it's somehow is used to improve
the functionality of the device,
to make the device do what it did before,
but better.
So that's what you start with, you start
with a thing, you add some intelligence,
some computer technology inside it.
Then, to top it off,
you add Internet connectivity.
Now, this is very common in things, and
that's where the term Internet
of things comes from.
You add some kind of
Internet connectivity.
So now you've got a thing.
It's got some kind of computation inside
and it's got a network connection which
means it can use all sorts of other
resources that are not local.
Right?
It can reach on the Internet.
It's potentially accessible
from this IoT device.
So all that put together is generally
what you'd call an IoT device,
an Internet of Things device.
You take the thing,
you put some intelligence in there, and
you put some network connectivity.
And remember that, from the outside,
this device doesn't look that much
different than it used to look, right?
It doesn't look like a computer,
that's the main thing.
It doesn't look like a computer.
It doesn't have a full on keyboard and
a screen, it might have a screen,
a few little buttons on it but
it doesn't look like a standard computer.
You don't have to install Windows or
iOS or Android or
whatever the operating system is.
It's none of that complexity.
So it's much simpler to use,
just like the original thing was.
So if you look at the now,
the new refrigerator,
it's not gonna be hard to use.
You still open a door, close a door,
plug it into the wall, that sort of thing.
Get ice out of it.
The same old simple interface.
So traditional refrigerator,
keeps items cold, right?
This is a non Internet of Things.
Keeps items cold, you put things in it,
food, whatever it is.
A real simple interface, all right?
Everybody knows how to use it, and
decades ago it was the same interface.
Right?
A hundred years ago, I don't know if they,
yeah I guess I suppose they had
refrigerators a hundred years ago.
Hundred years ago, you had a refrigerator
that looked basically the same thing.
Now, an intelligent refrigerator,
I'm using that term to mean refrigerator
that now has some kind of
computational intelligence inside it.
And you see a lot of this
inside refrigerators nowadays.
My fridge is like this.
So, for instance,
it'll warn you when the door is ajar.
Usually it'll beep in some way, but
it could talk to you if it wanted to,
it doesn't matter.
But it'll warn you that.
It basically has some sort of sensors
built in that tells if the doors are shut.
And if they're open for a certain amount
of time, maybe they start a timer,
if they're open for a certain amount
of time, an alarm goes off and
that requires some kind of
computational intelligence.
It might tell you when the water
filter need replacing.
Mine is annoying in that way,
it tells me the same thing.
So it starts beeping every
time I try to get water now,
in fact right now I need a filter.
So it just beeps and beeps and beeps
every time I try to get water out of it.
So again it has some type of timer
where it keeps track of the date.
Says okay, this many days have gone by
since you last refilled the filters,
you changed it.
So again requires
computational intelligence.
Note that it doesn't require
networking yet right?
These tasks are just computational tasks.
It could tell you when
you're low on butter.
Now my fridge doesn't do this, but
you can imagine a refrigerator
that has some sort of a sensor
in there that can sense.
Maybe it has a camera in your butter tray
and it senses when your butter is low.
Right?
Maybe it tests the weight of your butter.
And if the weight is too low it says,
okay.
There isn't butter in here.
You are low on butter.
It could easily warn you of that.
Now mine doesn't do that.
There are refrigerators that
can do that sort of thing.
But, again,
local intelligence is required.
No real networking required to do that.
It could also tell you when you buy
foods that are high on fat content.
Now, this I've never actually seen such
a refrigerator, but you could do this.
You could take a picture, the fridge
itself could have a camera inside.
Could take a picture of the food that
you ordered, look it up in some type of
a library of food that it has,
and look at the food content,
look at the fat content and cholesterol
and so on, and it could warn you, right?
And it could do this with local data,
without network connectivity,
if you need it to.
You can also have a set of recipes
programmed into your refrigerator.
I know there are refrigerators
that have this.
They can be programmed into your fridge
and they can suggest recipes for
you based on the foods it sees inside.
So you've got milk, you've got butter,
you've got this, you've got that,
you can make pancakes today.
Something like this.
So, that's another thing that,
another feature that you can add on to an
intelligent refrigerator if you wanted to.
And it requires this computational
intelligence inside the refrigerator to do
that, also sensors, like cameras maybe,
weight sensors, door sensors to see if the
doors open and close, something like that.
And using all that together,
you can enhance the properties
of the refrigerator.
So now this refrigerator, it does a lot
more than what it used to do, but
it's still very easy to use, right?
You don't have to do anything complicated.
It tells you the door is ajar,
or something like that.
It's not extra work for you,
no learning curve, all right.
So, you might call that
an intelligent refrigerator, but
you'll notice that these
features that I'm listing here.
They don't require network
connectivity in general.
So these things that I'm listing here,
they can do that with local sensors,
right?
And local processing that sense what's
in your fridge and respond to you and
give you information.
So that's intelligent refrigerator.
But maybe you wouldn't call
that Internet of Things,
cuz it's not actually networked yet.
So the ultimate, the IoT refrigerator.
The IoT refrigerator is basically
the computational intelligence,
but also network connectivity.
With the network connectivity you can add
another set of features on top of that,
that you couldn't have added
without the network connectivity.
For instance, you can have your
refrigerator actually order food for
you when the stock is low.
That could easily happen.
It can check,
it could just go straight to Amazon.
Amazon, I guess I shouldn't advertise,
but there are services
from which you can go to supermarkets and
order food, I use one of these services.
And they deliver food the next morning,
actually.
It's pretty amazing.
Seven in the morning and
the food will be there in the door step.
So, you can have your fridge detect
that you are low on butter and then just
order that, and then the next morning,
butter will appear on your doorstep.
But that requires network connectivity.
You have to be able to connect to
the network, and place the order,
grab money out of your bank account,
right,
transfer it to whoever you're
purchasing it from, things like that.
You can search for low food prices.
So it also suggest to you look,
you might wanna buy this item.
You're low on butter.
Buy butter from here rather than
there because it's cheaper.
And in fact, it can go ahead and just
buy that, or it can just suggest to you.
But again,
that requires network connectivity.
It would have to connect to the network,
go search around different sites,
different super market sites, find the
different prices, compare them, and so on.
It could order a water-filter
when you need a water-filter.
So rather than annoying me and telling me,
you need water-filter beep beep beep.
It can just go and order that,
and it could appear for
me, UPS could deliver it the next day.
Right.
So it can anticipate meals.
It can be predictive.
So it can know what kind of food
you have in your fridge and
order what you need for
tomorrow's meals, right.
Took, and say oh, a good idea for food for
you tomorrow is this type of meal
that you've had in the past.
I will order whatever you need for
that meal, and
then it'll appear in your
doorstep the next morning.
And then you'll have everything you need
to cook what you need for the next day.
It can search news.
Probably it could actually do
more global type of searching.
It could look on news prices to see
what global trends are, so for instance.
And this is elaborate, but
you could certainly do this.
It could look at news trends and
say, oh it's El Nino.
Right, the world is
getting colder this year.
That means that fruits are gonna
be more expensive, right.
So I better stock up on fruits right now,
because I know that in a few months
I won't be able to get them, right.
Your machine can do that,
your fridge could do that.
Now I've never heard of a refrigerator
that does that, but that is certainly
possible, if you have the computational
intelligence inside the fridge and
you have network connectivity so
it can actually execute the searches.
It could also provide information to
businesses to tell them
what you're buying, right?
Now this maybe is not an advantage to you,
but certainly
some store that's selling different type
of food, it might want to market to you,
so they might want to know these people
are buying this type of food a lot.
So maybe we wanna market
that type of food to them.
That's another thing that
these devices do, and
we'll talk a little bit
more about that later.
Thanks.
[MUSIC]